I am it I am the backbone of what you
call America in fact I built it I I am
what you see when you look at love
cemetery I am the mere image of my
ancestors love cemetery is not forgotten
in fact is right here in my eyes my
mouth my heart my hands my mind and
better yet my feet cuz i continue to
walk that path of unforgiving destiny
you need to know who you are at a very
deep level so that you can begin to
really love yourself and appreciate the
fullness of who you are I get choked up
for several reasons number one um just
because of the land and I remember like
how back then how my family worked with
a Lane has slaves and now they you know
it's there as their Landis as our land
is our property I was very very shocked
that students would not know would be so
disconnected from the past that they
didn't even understand fully what
slavery was about I don't have a
conscience to let students graduate from
an historical black college not
understanding what it all meant for you
to see and appreciate the potential for
the history that i was talking about
that I'd found in Harrison County I was
thrilled and for you to then say would I
work with you to develop curriculum your
book has been the impetus for something
better grander it because now we can
expose every student to the opportunity
to learn about the pants this book is
that gateway into that direction
cemeteries are a critical avenue for
locating your ancestors learn of my
history is very important because this
project that you're China was trying to
get to is like to me was like a treasure
knows the opportunity to get to cuz who
knows I may have somebody you know
that's in the cemetery i don't know
because i have ties to text on so you're
known from florida my grandmother lives
in texas even when you talk about
slavery we come from so much wealth when
you talk about that type of strength
that type of faith that type of tenacity
you need to know that and so when you
talk about ancestors I get so excited
because i just wish i had some of what
they had no
glue can
our kids have lost so much by being I
guess away locked out of the cemetery
locked out of our history Manning
Marable is in the story an
african-american professor at Columbia I
quote him here and he says something so
wonderful in order for us to have a
common future we have to reconstruct our
common past there was a man who asked me
well what are you teaching teaching by
slavery you know not knowing about all
of the great inventors and all of the
historians and all of the people who
contributed to the founding and building
of this country I believe that if we all
had a broader view and a broader
understanding of the historical
contributions of everybody starting at
early childhood with an emphasis on your
own particular culture when you have
knowledge yourself and you bring a
certain level of prior to the table for
your culture then when you go to other
cultures there's a level of
understanding because we see how the
interrelatedness and the
interconnectedness of all coach back
then my family started a quilt each year
when they start assembling and making
fair means on their bring a piece
whatever was important to them um their
swords gether every time I see it I car
it's a feeling like no other I really
can't express this it's like a
jaw-dropping experience because is
that's your history no that's our family
the majority of the students believe
reaching back not only help them to
understand who they are but help them to
respect the ancestors and therefore
respect ourselves and each other today I
forget I forget where I come from so I
forget that I was a queen I descended
from Nefertiti Cleopatra and Ramses you
see I I have power in my voice just like
those women before me I I'm destined to
be free and I will scream at the
mountaintops that i'm free i am Rosa
Parks that will not get up from that
seat and I am that woman that believe
that every black and white kids should
be free I'm like
Scott King but she died but I still
carry on the dream